                        TRANSFER AGREEMENT WITH GUARANTEED ADMISSION
                      BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
                          AND THE VIRGINIA COMMUNITY COLLEGE SYSTEM

In accordance with the Virginia State Policy on Transfer, the Virginia Community College System (VCCS) and The
University of Virginia’s College at Wise (UVA Wise) recognize the need for and importance of facilitating the transfer of
students from one institution to the other as they pursue their educational goals. The VCCS and UVA Wise enter into this
agreement to provide all students an opportunity for guaranteed admission to the college. VCCS students who do not meet
the requirements described herein are encouraged to apply and may be considered for admission under the regular
admission procedures of the college.

This agreement supersedes all previous agreements between UVA Wise and the VCCS or its individual institutions signed
prior to January 2023. It does not nullify individual program-to-program agreements articulated since this date.

Section 1: Definition of Guaranteed Admission Agreement (GAA)
An agreement between a two-year institution or the VCCS (system office) on behalf of community colleges and a four-
year institution according to which a student is guaranteed admission to the four-year institution by earning a transfer
degree or a specified applied degree and satisfying specified academic benchmarks and criteria. Students transferring
under a general admission GAA are not necessarily entitled to be admitted to a specific program. GAAs should be state-
level agreements.

Section 2: Requirements for Admission
    A. Applicable Associate Degrees:
        Transfer-oriented associate degrees include Associate of Arts (AA), Associate of Science (AS), and Associate of
        Arts & Sciences (AA&S) degrees identified by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV) as
        university-parallel transfer degrees. Only those AS or AA&S in General Studies degrees identified by SCHEV as
        transfer degrees qualify for this UVA Wise GAA (see
        https://www.schev.edu/home/showpublisheddocument/298/637807416962200000 for a list of approved General
        Studies degrees).
    B. Minimum GPA requirement:
        A minimum grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 or higher on a four-point scale is required. The GPA should be
        reflected as the cumulative GPA on the VCCS or RBC transcript. UVA Wise will recognize the cumulative GPA
        as recorded on the VCCS transcript and not recalculate based on multiple course attempts. Courses transferred
        into the two-year college are not included in the GPA computation. UVA Wise will recognize the highest grade
        earned for awarding of transfer credits.
    C. Limitations due to academic or disciplinary record:
        UVA Wise reserves the right to deny admission to any student who has been convicted of a felony, or any student
        who is on academic or disciplinary probation, or who has been suspended or expelled from his or her previous
        institution.
    D. Course requirements:
        UVA Wise will guarantee the acceptance of all transferrable credits with a passing grade (a passing grade is any
        grade above a D and includes those credits with COVID-related grades) not to exceed 62 credits. Courses with
        failing grades will not be accepted.
    E. Minimum credits to be completed at associate degree institution:
        Students are required to earn an associate degree with 60 or more credits; a minimum of 30 credits must be
        completed at the degree-granting institution. Students who have attended UVA Wise, then returned to the two-
        year institution, may again use this agreement to re-enroll at UVA Wise.
    F. Maximum credits applicable for transfer:
        All credits contained in the transfer-oriented associate degree will be accepted, not to exceed 62 credits.
    G. Testing requirements:
        Some programs may require pre-entry tests for admission to the major (example: nursing) but no specific testing
        requirements are necessary for institutional admission under this agreement.
                                                                                                       GAA Updated 3.23.23
    H. Admission application and enrollment:
       Students interested in taking advantage of guaranteed admission must apply to UVA Wise and fill out the
       Guaranteed Admission (GAP) form found online at www.uvawise.edu/apply. Students may apply for admission
       at any point after the completion of 30 semester hours. UVA Wise accepts transfer applications on a rolling basis.
    I. Transcript submission:
       Students submit a copy of official transcripts from all previous colleges attended to UVA Wise before or upon
       applying for admission. Official transcripts noting the associate’s degree conferred must be submitted before the
       end of the first term of attendance. Students will not be permitted to register for a second term of attendance if all
       final transcripts are not submitted.
    J. Registration of Intent to use the agreement:
       A student can still participate in the GAA without registering the intent to use the agreement through the Transfer
       Virginia portal.

Section 3: Application of Associate Degree to General Education Requirement (Per SCHEV Policy)
        Upon completion of the transferable associate degree, all lower division general education requirements will be
        met upon admission to UVA Wise.

Section 4: Application of this Agreement to Students Earning Associate Degree Concurrent with High School (Per
SCHEV Policy)
        UVA Wise will guarantee admission to high school students earning a transferable associate degree through dual
        enrollment. No distinction will be made by UVA Wise regarding college courses applicable to the associate
        degree that are taken through a dual enrollment arrangement with high schools. Completion of the associate
        degree through dual enrollment does not preclude eligibility under this agreement.

Section 5: Applications of this Agreement to Students Earning Credit for Prior Learning (CPL)
         UVA Wise accepts credits for prior learning for Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB),
         Cambridge (CIE) and College Level Examination Program (CLEP) and Joint Services Transcript (JST). Students
         completing an associate degree using credits for prior learning will receive the benefits of this agreement. CPL
         credit will be evaluated for equivalency and qualifying scores. In instances where the score is too low per UVA
         Wise published CPL thresholds, the student may be required to complete additional coursework. UVA Wise
         publishes equivalencies for awarding credit on the college’s website.

Section 6: Completion Criteria and Catalog Determination
         Students may choose the catalog in effect at the time of the student’s first post high school enrollment as long as
         it is within eight (8) years of admission to UVA Wise. Students will have all lower general education
         requirements met and 60 credit hours will apply to the bachelor’s degree requirement of 120 hours. Students
         must meet the requirements of their chosen major.

Section 7: Transfer Guide – Student Document
        The associated Transfer Guide represents all requirements for admittance under this GAA and the benefits that
        result. The Transfer Guide will be applied, once development is complete, as the student-facing document for this
        agreement. Transfer Guides for majors covered by this GAA are featured at the Transfer Virginia portal
        (https://transfervirginia.org/); students are guaranteed admission into these academic programs through their
        admittance to UVA Wise.

Section 8: Administration of Agreement
        The UVA Wise official responsible for all UVA Wise aspects of the GAA and Register of Intent to Transfer is the
        Director of Admissions and the Registrar or his/her designee. The VCCS official responsible for all VCCS aspects
        of the GAA is the VCCS Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic and Workforce Programs or his/her designee, in
        consultation with the Guaranteed Admission Review Committee of the VCCS Academic and Student Affairs
        Council.

                                                                                                       GAA Updated 3.23.23
        This agreement will remain in effect until modified or terminated. This Agreement may be modified only by
        mutual agreement by the VCCS Chancellor and Chancellor of UVA Wise. Termination may be made by either
        party upon one (1) year prior written notice. Students who register their intent to use this agreement through the
        Transfer Virginia portal under the GAA prior to the date of termination are eligible for admission for two years
        after termination becomes effective.
        The effective date of this Agreement is the date last signed by the Chancellor of UVA Wise and the VCCS
        Chancellor. The signed Agreement will be maintained in the Transfer Virginia Portal.
        VCCS Responsibilities
          ● Submit a PDF of the official signed Agreement to the Portal Coordinator.
          ● Use portal data to track which four-year institutions students are targeting for the GAA and provide
             support to students.
        UVA Wise Responsibilities
          ● Use portal and internal data to track students who register their intent to use the GAA. Use this data to
             maintain ability to honor agreement in respect to enrollment capacities.
          ● 4-year institutions use portal data to track students who register their intent to use this agreement and
             engage with students to best prepare students for transfer.

Section 9: Review Clause
        UVA Wise and the VCCS will review this agreement and the student tracking data every four years to adjust as
        deemed appropriate to maintain its integrity and value and for the improvement of the transfer process. Changes
        will not be applied retroactively to students already enrolled or registered under the provisions of the existing
        GAA.
        If no changes are necessary, the documented review below will extend this agreement for an additional four years.


Signatures


                                                                                              06/13/2023
____________________             __6/14/2023________              _______________________     _________
Donna Price Henry                Date                             David Doré                  Date
Chancellor                                                        Chancellor
UVA Wise                                                          Virginia Community College System




                                                                                                      GAA Updated 3.23.23
Review Documentation

 Review Date         Completed By                           Agreement Extension




Note: Recorded by the VCCS, shared with senior institution, and updated in the Transfer Virginia Portal


Appendix A: Transfer Guide Mapped to Undeclared Major for UVA Wise. The Transfer Guide will be applied once
development is complete.




                                                                                           GAA Updated 3.23.23
